Project Title
Rossmann Store Sales Forecasting using Facebook Prophet

Project Overview
This project implements a time-series forecasting model to predict total daily sales for Rossmann drug stores. Using historical sales data, the script aggregates daily performance across all stores and employs Facebook Prophet to generate a 30-day future sales forecast. The solution includes data visualization, model component analysis (seasonality), and performance evaluation using error metrics.

Tech Stack
Language: Python

Libraries:

prophet: For time-series forecasting.

pandas & numpy: For data manipulation and aggregation.

matplotlib: For plotting sales trends and forecast results.

sklearn: For calculating performance metrics (MAE, RMSE).

kagglehub: For automatic dataset downloading.

Dataset
The project uses the Rossmann Store Sales dataset sourced via Kaggle.

Source: Rossmann Store Sales on Kaggle

Preprocessing: The script aggregates the Sales column by Date to analyze the total company-wide revenue trend, rather than individual store performance.

Implementation Steps
Environment Setup:

Suppresses unnecessary warnings and logging from Prophet/CmdStanPy for cleaner output.

Downloads the dataset directly using kagglehub.

Data Processing:

Loads train.csv.

Converts the Date column to datetime objects.

Aggregates data to calculate Total Daily Sales (ds = Date, y = Sales) to prepare it for the Prophet model.

Exploratory Analysis:

Plots the historical sales trend to visualize patterns, seasonality, and outliers before training.

Model Training:

Initializes a Prophet model with:

daily_seasonality=True

weekly_seasonality=True

yearly_seasonality=True

Fits the model on the historical daily aggregated data.

Forecasting:

Generates a placeholder dataframe for the next 30 days.

Predicts future sales (yhat) along with uncertainty intervals (yhat_lower, yhat_upper).

Evaluation:

Visualizes the forecast and decomposes the model components (trend, weekly seasonality, yearly seasonality).

Calculates error metrics on the training data:

MAE (Mean Absolute Error): Average absolute difference between actual and predicted sales.

RMSE (Root Mean Squared Error): Square root of the average squared errors (penalizes large errors).

Key Outputs
The script generates the following insights:

Visualizations:

Historical Sales Trend Plot.

30-Day Forecast Plot (with confidence intervals).

Component Analysis (Trend vs. Weekly/Yearly Seasonality).

Console Metrics:

Model Accuracy (MAE & RMSE).

Sales Forecast Summary:

Last Recorded Sales figure.

Forecast for the immediate next day.

Average forecasted sales for the next 30 days.

How to Run
Install dependencies:

Bash

pip install pandas numpy matplotlib prophet scikit-learn kagglehub
Run the script. The dataset will be downloaded automatically to your local cache.
